What is Devops ? It is an approch to develop an software. Quality Software. Withought any bugs. And you know there is frequent changes in the software is going on.  

 

Previously we use waterfall model to develop the software.  Requirement design implemntaing verigication maintanece.  

Advantage of watefall model.  

Simple to understand and use 

You can do easu testing 

But it is good for small project where requirement are clearly defined 

Disadvantage: 

It is risky 

Lack of visibility 

Not good when requirement changes 

The end product is avaialble at the end of cuycle 

Aguke : where same process requirement gathereing design development testing and maintaince. But the duration is 2 to 8 week.  

They use to release the application with high priority features.  

Disadvantage of Agile 

Highly depend on custom requirement 

Not suitable for complex project 

No documentation 

Increase maintanibily and risk.  

SDLC- software development life cycle.  

 

To overcome this chllanges Devops has come. Where you develop and application with set of engineer. Wheere you have the developer and operation tema work together.  

But to do the same we use different tools.  

There are multiple stages in devops 

Devops Has Change the architecture of your Application. We are moving to monolothical to micro services.  

What is monolothical---everything has been tightly integrated together.  

Micro service:  

Changing the existing architecture from monolothical to micro service is not an easy task. It is like re architecting your application. And recreate from the scratch. To build an micro service we required multiple programmer having knowledge on different langauge.  

Manual compilation will not work. We need to build our application with autmated features.  

Communicatiion between the micro services is a challenges. When we convert my application to micro service we need more number of server.  

Docker podman. Complexity increase. Automation kubernetes. It is also an micro service with complexity. Openshift. Again complexity comes.  

 

We need to resolves our challenges one by one using automation.  

Complaince 

They cannot make mistake.  

What is Microservices.  

Contnues Development : this is the core of an Devops Life cycle. In this developer commit the code more frequenty to an version control system. Once they commit it will be build autmatically. It allow you to early detection of problem if they are present. Not only that you do code revie unit testing integrating testing and packing.  

Continues testing : jenkins selenium testng junit. This is the stage where your develop software check for bugs using autmated testing tools. User acceptance testing.  

Contnues Integration 

Contunes testing 

Contnues Deployment : consist of two things. This si the stage where we deploy our code into multiple stages in the environment dev test uat prod and we want that correctly we have deployed the software. Same application need to be deployed in multiple environment before it goes for production. If I do it manuallly. We need autmation. Same application deployed in multiple server same time and everywhere the environment will be similar.  

Chef,ansible,puppet 

 

Ansible is used for updating an running environment. I want to deploy  a patch or update my application with new app. Or I want to change the configuration file in all the nodes.  

Terraform. + packer : using a single script you just need to give terraform up. It will aumatically launch a server deploy your application. It will give you an update what are the changes it is don’t. it is a provisioing tools.  

 

 

version control system 
build it 
test it 
develope 
ansible 
terraform which will 
autmatically pro vision 
your en vironmentfor 
the first time 
 

Screen clipping taken: 4/25/2021 11:26 PM 

 

 

Configuration management : chef puppet ansible 

Containerization : docker 

Continues Monitoring 

DevSecOps: security is also included in devops.  

Sec Operation 

Sec in Development 

Devops 
Development Team + IT Operation 
SecOps 
Security Team 
DevSecOps 
Ip Operation 
Dev+security+opeation 
 

Screen clipping taken: 4/25/2021 11:56 PM 

 

Security is an threat in the entiere devops lifecycle.  

Devops is agile 

SecOPs- every member of development cyle team is aware of reponsiblity of security.  

As per devops there is frequent change in code. - security is concern . Someone do sql injection. We use tools to do the same.  

Sonarqube or sonar scanner.  

 
